A web browser that runs inside the
terminal. Why do we even need this?
I don't know, but I want it. I
want to try it right now. Honestly,
it sounds kind of awesome. I don't have
to leave my terminal. I'm already there.
It'll block ads by default because it
legit can't load them. I'm intrigued.
How do you scroll and
how do you click links?
I'm kind of excited to try that
and yeah, I haven't set this up.
So we're setting this up together.
You and me. Get your copy ready.
This is five minute Friday.
It's called links and the
website is kind of 1995.
It's probably easy to browse with their
browser. I get it. Oh wait, hold on.
They have a version for Windows too.
Okay, we're going to try that too.
But first we'll do Linux
seems pretty basic. On Debian,
you're using a PT and then DNF
of Fedora and Pacman on Arch.
So I'm going to try this in Ubuntu on
WSL. So curious about how this works.
So we'll do a pseudo A PT install
links. Do a dash y at the end,
pseudo password. Let's
go. Okay, that was it.
Now what I have no idea what to do,
maybe I just type in links. I'm using it.
It's a fully featured worldwide web
browser. They do have a user guide.
I'm going to try and do
this without the user guide.
So we use the up and down arrow keys
to move, right to follow a link. Okay.
And left to go back. That seems pretty
simple. I can get down with that. Okay,
so I guess, hold on. What do I do?
Okay, I think I'm at the main screen.
I'm going to hit Oh, for options. What
are my options here? You can do vi mode.
This a little too much for me.
Let's make my browser bigger here.
I'm going to exit. Start it again.
I just closed out of my Ubuntu.
Okay, let's try it again. Oh, it was
made by the University of Kansas.
That's pretty cool. Let's do
question mark. I don't know,
that's just searching stuff.
Okay, we're on the main screen.
If I type in G to go somewhere,
oh, there we go. So type in G.
I'll go to network chuck.com.
Now my site is very,
very graphic heavy. It's going,
oh my gosh, that's cool. Alright,
so I'm just going to scroll down to,
let's go to about the right arrow.
Yeah, it went to the About me page,
which I need to update. It's
only got 2.8 million subscribers.
I've got a lot more.
Alright, go to academy.
Now it's saying do I want to accept a
cookie? I'm just going to put it always,
man, this is so cool.
I would not recommend going to academy
dot number chuck.com with this because
it's the video course website. So
I think I've got the gist of this.
Now how do I click on G again? Okay,
so G will get you to another url.
Let's try going to info dot
aci learning.com/network.
Chuck,
that's just a really terrible segue to
our sponsor ACI learning the provider of
IT pro. Okay, so this is
pretty cool. Now real quick,
you do save 30% off your first
month or year with code Chuck 30.
Now what is it Pro? If you want to get
started in it and learn things like, hey,
what's a computer?
All the way up to Linux and
PowerShell on the cloud and hacking.
You can do all that with IT Pro.
You could start an entirely
new career with IT pro.
They've got videos that
won't bore you to tears.
We're going to try and get logged in.
Browsing this in a terminal is not easy.
I love the description of the
what, the fill in texts for photos,
happy man in suit using
laptop. That could be you.
I just want to get logged in platform
logins, choose my path ACI on demand,
and that's where it dies because
as we'll talk about later,
it doesn't load things really well when
you have to use JavaScript and login
forms or anything fancy. But seriously,
here's it pro the real website,
much prettier. And again, they've got
everything you need to get started.
Entry level, it gets your A plus to
network plus security, plus CTNA.
All the cloud certs. You have pretty
much all of them. AWS certifications.
They've got practice tests and
they've got virtual elapse.
Pretty much everything you need to get
started in it and prepare for practice
exams. So again, check it out,
link below. Use a regular browser,
not a terminal one for obvious reasons.
And don't forget to use Chuck 30 for
30% off your first month or year.
Let's try. What would be a good
website? Go to bleeping computer.
I got to admit that you accepting
the cookie thing every time is really
annoying. This news
article is kind of crazy.
National public data confirms breach
exposing social security numbers.
Let's go right Key to
that. One more cookies.
Is there a way to always accept cookies?
Oh wait, am I saving a document?
Cancel. This is so fun. Oh,
I keep trying to go back
and then I quit. Okay, that was so fun.
Now I'm going to jump back in there
and see if I can just enable, oh,
I feel so out of my element with this.
I'm going to go to options to see if I
can always accept cookies. Accept all.
Okay, perfect. That'll make this
so much better. And then, okay,
so how do I get out and save? Oh, it's
right here. Oh, shoot. Accept changes.
There we go. You got to be
careful. You go to that left arrow,
you're going to go back.
Now they have a whole user
guide of how to download stuff,
navigating special links like
mail tool links and comments.
So kind of love this.
But a couple of things because
this is a text-based only browser.
You can't go to certain sites like
YouTube and enjoy YouTube. Actually,
I'm curious what happens when I
go to YouTube? We have to try it.
Let's go to YouTube.
Can I just type in A URL like this
links and then I'll do youtube.com?
Yes, it does it. I thought
I told you. Oh, GPSI.
That's cool. Okay, sure.
Yes. Accept all the cookies.
Yeah, it hates this. So YouTube
isn't going to work great.
And any site that requires any kind
of JavaScript or special scripts to
allow you to log in like Gmail, it's
not going to do great with, but still,
it's pretty fun.
Let me know how you're going to use
this or if you'll ever use this.
If anything, it's just fun to
try. Oh, and we forgot one thing.
Can we install it on Windows? I don't
know why I'd want to because I've got WSL,
but I'm curious. No, I'm
not going to mess with this.
It's talking about Windows seven. I'm
not doing that. That's too old for me.
I'll stick with Linux. Anyways,
that's a five minute Friday fun little
tool I found that could be fun for you.
I'm not sure. I'll probably end up using
it every once in a while. That's it.
I'll catch you guys next time.